---
layout: journal
title: Inclind Launches New Prudential Gallo Real Estate Management Intranet
tags: 
- real estate
- content management systems
- intranets
show_chat: true
show_contacts: false
---

On September 28th, 2007, the Inclind team launched a brand new version of the Prudential Gallo Intranet. Prudential Gallo is a Delaware real estate company with two offices, one in Lewes, Delaware, and the other in and Rehoboth Beach, Delaware. They have approximately 90 agents employed and are one of the top sales leaders in Sussex County, and one of our oldest clients. Now they have the best real estate management system and company intranet they can&#39;t get anywhere else. Combining three of our big products, Inclind Intranet, Inclind CMS (Content Management System) and Inclind Real Estate, Prudential Gallo&#39;s new intranet is going to make them more efficient, productive, and successful than ever before. Prudential Gallo agents can use the intranet to do the following: <ul> <li> Check for new Delaware MLS real estate listings from Offutt</li> <li> Manage their contacts and real estate leads</li> <li> Manage development communities they are assigned to</li> <li> Add additional documents for a listing</li> <li> Add additional data for a listing, such as longer description, links, or supplied information from the seller</li> <li> Manage events, such as an Open House</li> <li> Manage their mailing list</li> <li> Send email to contacts or leads</li> <li> Manage their agent profile, viewable on the website</li> <li> Manage internal documents</li> <li> Manage advertisements</li> <li> Generate reports based on listing data and export data to excel for further drill down reporting</li> <li> Generate datasheets to Microsoft Word documents for printing and editing</li> <li> Manage rentals from an external XML feed</li></ul> Prudential Gallo staff members can use the intranet to do the following: <ul> <li> Manage and assign leads to an agent</li> <li> Create and manage content across any Prudential Gallo website</li> <li> Send company-wide email, or send email to Prudential Gallo contacts</li> <li> Manage internal and public news</li> <li> Manage Virtual Tours</li></ul> These are only some of the great features deployed for Prudential Gallo. It is one of our most versatile web applications yet. Nearly everything, aside from the dynamic code logic, is manageble by Prudential Gallo, allowing them to be as hands-on as they want to be. As lead developer on the project, I was tasked with approaching the application from both a programmer, web developer, and user&#39;s perspective. I had to put myself in the shoes of the agent and wonder to myself &quot;What would I want to see here?&quot; or &quot;How would I use this?&quot;. Doing so helped us design an even tighter interface on the intranet usability and improved the visual aesthetics, which the client and agents had commented on. They find their new intranet is fantastic and a breath of fresh air, a major and much needed improvement over their old one which was supplied by a previous vendor. It is completely platform independent and is accessible from any OS with a web browser. I enjoyed working on this project a lot and look forward to working on more like this in the future. I was able to learn more about programming and product integration as well as improving/enhancing user interface. Visit Prudential Gallo at <a href="http://www.prugallo.com">prugallo.com</a>. If you would like to learn more about Inclind CMS (Content Management System), Inclind Intranet, or Inclind Real Estate and how our products can benefit your company, please <a href="http://www.inclind.com/contact.cfm">contact us</a>.