---
layout: journal
title: Drupal Wins Best Open Source CMS for 2009
tags: 
- drupal
- security
show_chat: true
show_contacts: false
---

Drupal has won <strong>best open source PHP Content Management System</strong> for the <strong>second year in a row</strong> in the Packt Publishing 2009 Open Source CMS Awards. Drupal won by popular vote and a critical selection by a panel of judges. This award reflects the strong support of the Drupal community and the Drupal associations focus on quality which leads to critical acclaim and rapid adoption for large, high quality projects. Drupal won <strong>best overall open source CMS</strong> in 2007 and 2008. From the <a href="http://www.packtpub.com/award" target="_blank">award announcement</a>: <em>We are pleased to announce that Drupal has won the Best Open Source PHP CMS Category in the 2009 Open Source CMS Award. This category featured a very close contest between the top three, Drupal, WordPress, and Joomla! in which Drupal ended up as the overall choice for the judges and the public.</em> This is the highest award that Drupal was eligible for in 2009. Drupal previously won for <strong>Best Overall CMS in 2007 and 2008</strong> has been placed in the Hall of Fame. The winners of the Hall of Fame Drupal awards for best Drupal theme and best Drupal contributed module will be awarded Thursday, November 12th, 2009. The themes and modules nominated were selected both for the most used and for a diverse set of nominees. We use Drupal exclusively for building customized, scalable high end web applications. It&#39;s no surprise developers, designers and users keep voting Drupal as Best CMS for years in a row. There is nothing you cannot do with Drupal. Being a CMF (content management framework), it is not pigeonholed into any one particular niche like Wordpress (strictly blogging applications). What has <a href="http://www.inclind.com" target="_blank">Inclind</a> done with Drupal? <ul> <li> Integration with Microsoft Dynamics SOP System into Ubercart for product importing and inventory management</li> <li> Integration with Ubercart and Drupal into UPS Worldship for rock solid quoting</li> <li> Integration with UPS Worldship for automatic label printing for commerce orders</li> <li> Integration with Amazon S3 services for synced failsafe CDN (Content Distribution Network) support</li> <li> Integration with Windows LDAP Protocol support</li> <li> Integration with Invision Power Board Forum for external authentication of users through Drupal</li> <li> Integrated Ubercart as a management application of customers with interval based shipping orders (drop shipment / bulk ordering)</li> <li> Built routing algorithms to track and route best delivery methods for truck drivers on to Google Maps</li> <li> Built over 100 custom modules to meet the needs of individual clients</li> <li> ... with more to come</li></ul> Who else uses Drupal? Check it out! <ul> <li> AOL</li> <li> The White House</li> <li> Yahoo</li> <li> IBM</li> <li> Bob Dylan</li> <li> The Onion</li> <li> CNN</li> <li> Metallica</li> <li> United Nations</li> <li> jQuery</li> <li> Sony BMG</li> <li> Michael Jackson</li> <li> Ozzy Osbourne</li> <li> EA Games</li> <li> Star Trek Online</li> <li> Mastodon</li> <li> Warner Bros</li> <li> CKY</li> <li> MTV</li> <li> MTV2</li> <li> SpreadFirefox</li> <li> SpreadThunderbird</li> <li> Computer World</li></ul>