---
layout: journal
title: Billboard Management Now Available
tags: 
- custom drupal modules
- web design
- web applications
show_chat: true
show_contacts: false
---

Billboards (renamed from 'Banners') is a brand new feature we have been rolling out in the last week for clients with very positive feedback. It is a self-contained Drupal module we built that requires only Imagecache. There are no real modules to facilitate managing header area images, other than HeaderImage and Ads. HeaderImage is 'okay' but becomes too cumbersome from adding block after block, and Ads is entirely too beastly to achieve a simple implementation. Previously, it took knowledge of image gallery, taxonomy, blocks, images and paths to tie everything together to get a banner to appear. Even some of the more popular modules require you to create a View per banner. That is way too much to ask a client to do who is busy trying to run a successful business. What are billboards (banners, header images, et al) you ask? Billboards are the large images you see on various websites that cover the header area. They typically contain marketing statements and imagery relevant to the websites purpose or page content. Here are is one of my favorite examples: <a href="http://www.visitsoutherndelaware.com/" target="_blank">Visit Southern Delaware Tourism Website</a> See that set of images just above the content, fading in and out? That is a billboard. With this module, you can create those in a matter of seconds. After some brainstorming between Shaun and myself, we set out to create something simple, as simple as creating a Page node, without all the aforementioned hassle. After a week of coding, testing, testing and testing, we achieved just that. Now all you have to do is say, I want to create a Billboard, drop in your images (with a cool AJAX in-place uploader, you don't even have to leave the page), and tell it what pages to display on and you're done! It couldn't be any simpler. You also have additional options available to you such as changing how the images display (random image, or fade in/out between images), setting ALT and Title tags for SEO (Search Engine Optimization), and select a resize option to size the billboard to (which is controlled and hooked into ImageCache!). Oh, on top of all of that, it's all output via a single block. That's right, you can have 100 billboards and just one block. Once you place it in the region, depending on your site theme, it's ready to go. We're here to serve you, to help you get things done faster, and make it so you don't need a PHd to manage your site. If you have any questions regarding Billboards, Drupal, our refined CMS package or need help managing your content, we are here to help. Give us a call at 302-856-2802, send us a tweet <a href="http://twitter.com/inclindinc">@inclindinc</a>, or stop by our office.