---
layout: journal
title: How to Write a Good Blog Post - Beginners
tags: 
- search engine optimization
- blog
- tips
- seo
- search engine optimized content
show_chat: true
show_contacts: false
---

One thing Inclind prides itself on, as a company, is that we strive to do what is right for the client. Not everyone has time for blogging, facebook, and twitter, not to mention the other myriad of social media/marketing applications out there, so we don&#39;t coerce our clients into a marketing technique that they won&#39;t succeed in. The truth is that most just don&#39;t <em><strong>make</strong></em> the time, because they assume it is more time consuming than it is in reality. But for those of you who might think blogging will soak up your whole career, or even an entire day, we have good news. <strong>Here are some tips:</strong> <ul> <li> Schedule Writing/Delegate</li> <li> Keep SEO in Mind</li> <li> Have an Attack Plan</li></ul><h3> Schedule Writing/Delegate</h3> It&#39;s tough to make time in a busy schedule without creating a slot for your goal. If you are the CEO of your company, pick someone you trust within your company to write in your stead so you can focus on your own tasks, much like Shaun did with me and the post you&#39;re reading now. Have them schedule the writing as if it were a meeting, with time alloted for research. Most calendar applications allow for a reoccuring event, so the staff member could easily make a second-tuesday-of-every-month penning appointment. One good blog post per month is a realistic, acceptable goal, but one-a-month event is easy to overlook, so put it in the calendar! Remember: <strong>a goal without a date is a wish</strong>. <h3> Keep SEO (Search Engine Optimization) in Mind</h3> The overview of this tip is this: keep your target demographic in mind at all times. Read on for details. a.) Forget Industry Terms<br /> b.) Longtail Keywords <strong>Forget Industry Terms (For the Most Part)</strong> If you are writing to educate the general public on a certain term or two, then use technical terminology. Avoid writing for the sake of showing you know college words. The easier the read, the more people will pay attention. Let this point stick: the purpose of the blog post is to draw traffic from search engines, so use the words your potential clients would use to find you in your content. <strong>Longtail Keywords</strong> This is a bit deep for beginners, but here comes an introduction. Since we are on the subject of SEO, we might as well breech <em>longtail keywords</em>. If you are a fencing installation startup, or a tattoo shop, don&#39;t ever expect to come up first for the search of &quot;fencing&quot; or &quot;tattoo shop.&quot; These are too broad. To be honest, the majority of traffic driven to your site will leave quickly. Much more successful are our clients that use very narrow, very specific keyword groupings. Think &quot;Orange County, California Tattoo Studio&quot; versus our previous &quot;tattoo shop&quot; example. This is a quality vs. quantity argument, but if you are found by the majority of people ready to buy from you or someone close, it is likely to bring more business/profit. Websites costs money, so use the leverage you have to bring that money back in. <h3> Have an Attack Plan</h3> Most of our clients just starting out writing their blog need a bit of guidance in assembling a solid post. Here is a formula I provide to our clients that helps them stay organized and generate a successful blog post more quickly: <ul> <li> Problem</li> <li> Solution</li> <li> Execution</li></ul> While keeping the SEO benefits in mind, discuss a problem your client has in one paragraph, follow it with your solution strategy in the next, and then close with a solid example of how you have found success with this strategy in real-world situations. Statistics are always a strong persuasion tool in this conclusion. Including images is a great way to make reading a less danting task for your visitor because it breaks up the text. <h3> All Done!</h3> So writing a good blog post isn&#39;t so bad afterall. Just have a goal, schedule it, and write for the problem, solution, and execution formula. Simple! Stay tuned for future posts as we dive more into <a href="/content/search-engine-optimization/index.htm" title="Blogging &amp; Search Engine Optimization From Your Delaware Web Designer">Search Engine Optimization</a> strategies.