---
layout: journal
title: Google takes on Facebook with Google+
tags: 
- social networking
- facebook
- social media
- google plus
- g
show_chat: true
show_contacts: false
---

I've been a user of social networks before there was ever such a term.  In the 90s, there were multitudes of online communities where users could share content and maintain an online presence. For me it was Geocities, one of the better networks in the mid 90s. I taught myself HTML here, maintained a few websites and regularly chatted with other users. Others ran message boards, the more popular ones showing what would become huge in the next decade: focus on the user and their network of friends. It was easy to see where this was all going, that the internet was more than just a place to lookup cheat codes, play Quake and download cool wallpapers.  One of the earliest actual social networks I can recall is <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friendster" target="_blank">Friendster</a>. Launched in 2002, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friendster" target="_blank">Friendster</a> allowed users to create a profile, add friends, and share content. Within the first few months they had reached 3 million users, a small fraction of the giant social networks today. However, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friendster" target="_blank">Friendster</a> would lay the roadmap of where we are now.  Not long after that, other companies started to get in the game. In 2003, MySpace, LinkedIn, and Bebo joined the fray, soon followed by the monolithic Facebook in 2004.  I maintained a profile on MySpace for close to 6 years. Before Facebook became popular (or should say, opened registration up to more than a few dozen colleges) - this was the primary way friends would share and interact online. Social networking at that point was still rough around the edges and not a totally polished experience. That all changed when Facebook opened up to the public and became the worlds largest network, with over 750 million registered users as of July 2011.  Given the runaway success of Facebook, other social networks have all but died off and became a fading memory. MySpace, acquired by NewsCorp for $580 million in 2005, sold earlier this year for just $35 million. They are currently trying to rebrand and reboot the name. Facebook, on the other hand, has been given valuations of anywhere from 10 to 40 billion dollars. Could anyone step up and change the game on a network of almost a billion users?  Enter Google. Google is currently beta testing their hot new social network called <a href="https://plus.google.com" target="_blank">Google+ (Google Plus)</a>, however this is not Google's first foray into social networking. Google launched <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orkut" target="_blank">Orkut</a> in 2004, wildly popular in countries like Brazil and east Asia, but never took off here in North America. There were always rumors that Google would release a new social networking product, and sure enough earlier this year, they annouced their new network on an invite only basis. Like other Google products, this invite-only access caused those uninvited (even myself) to cry failure before launch, because after all, what is a social networking site if you can't get your friends in?  Google started throwing invites out left and right earlier this month and opened up public registrations for a limited time each day. This was to counter the product announcement(s) by Facebook, who announced service upgrades to compete with what Google was now offering with Google+. I have been in Google+ for over a week now, and I think it is a good contender to do battle with Facebook. <h2>Interface</h2>  Right off the bat, the UI is very familiar and laid out similar to Facebook with all the common elements where you would look for them. Picture, top left. Content stream, center page. Additional information in the right sidebar, chat in the left sidebar. However, Google+'s implementation of this is much cleaner and feels better overall than Facebooks more compact/condensed structure. The UI is free of the usual clutter found on other sites, allowing you to quickly scan content, Circles, and updates.  Google+ has automatic integration with the new Google toolbar as well. From anywhere within the Google suite of tools, you can respond to Google+ notifications without returning to Google+. Support is also coming to allow you to respond and post via email as well. It is a nice change of pace to be able to do this without having to be on Google+ all the time, and I would expect many Chrome plugins to become available when the Google+ API opens up later this year to extend this functionality.  Posting has direct integration with other products like Google Maps and YouTube. Oh, you can also edit posts after you have posted them, an obvious feature that Facebook has missed (or refused) to implement. So don't worry about making a big post and having a typo or busted link, you can quickly edit it and correct the error. <h2>Circles</h2>  Firstly, the biggest difference between Google+ and Facebook is the use of "Circles" or different groups of people. This allows you to create a Circle for "Coworkers", a circle for "Friends", and a circle for "Family", for instance. When sharing content, you can select which Circle has access to see the post (including, albums, photos, and videos) with just a single click, and voila, you instantly have limited access content. This is much simplified and abstract over Facebook Groups, which is sepereated off the main social graph into its own area, and even the basic post functionality of Facebook which does not easily allow for securing acccess to content. I've read there are ways of giving permission to who sees what per post, but I can't figure it out at all, it's not clear with Facebook. On Google+, it couldn't be any easier. Have a nerdy website to share with coworkers? Paste the link into the post box, select "Coworkers" - boom, done. No more awkward moments when your grandmother asks "What's that Reddit thing all about anyway?".  This functionality is not limited to just groups of people either, you can also type in a friends name to give just that friend access to see it and no one else. This main differentiator is a huge draw to Google+ over Facebook, since this has been a major flaw since Facebook ever began. You want users to share, but users don't want everyone to see <em>everything</em>. Along with this, adding people to circles is not mutually exclusive, much like Twitter. There does not need to be an implicit relationship to follow what other users are doing. <h2>Photos and Videos</h2>  Like any social network, Google+ offers you the ability to create and upload picture or video albums. For the moment there does not seem to be any file size limit on uploads, I uploaded 15 3mb photos at once, and one 100mb video. You'll find all the same intelligent upload and photo editing tools as you would on Facebook, however, the presentation of content here really shines. Clever use of HTML5 breathes new life into an old concept by making photos or videos appear in a modal overlay with comments lined up on the right hand side of the frame, with sequential content in the bottom of the frame. While this sounds relatively basic, it works, and is a breath of fresh air over Facebooks unchanged style over the years. There is actually a sense of enjoyment and engagement from flicking through users media for once. My only gripe here though, I can't find a way to rename an album after I create it. I could not find this option anywhere, and I would assume this functionality is forthcoming. <h2>Hangouts &amp; Chat</h2> "Hangouts" are a feature of Google+ that allow you to create video chat rooms and invite multiple friends for video chatting. While I haven't used this much (I don't have a webcam) other users are reporting this feature to work better than Facebooks new Skype powered video chat. I can imagine this will be big for brands or companies as a cheap alternative to Webex or other teleconferencing solutions as this is completely free. GChat is also integrated with Google+ so you can chat with people in your Circles- you can also limit access to GChat by selecting different Circles, so you can't be bombarded if you are really popular and just want to limit it to certain friends. <h2>Mobility</h2> Google+ is built on HTML5 and javascript, complete with a mobile version of the site like other Google products. This is an immediate leg up over Facebook, who's mobile app rarely gets feature/bug updates. While Android users can upload photos through the web app, iPhone users will need to wait for the G+ app to hit the AppStore. Besides that, most of the functionality exists in the mobile version of the site. <h2>Public Access</h2> Public access is still limited to invite only, with reports that it will open up to the public on July 31st of this year. If you would like to be invited before that, <a href="/contact-us.htm">send us an email</a> and we will shoot you an invite. <h2>Final Thoughts</h2> Google+ is off to a great start in the social networking world, reaching almost 10 million users in just a month to mostly postive feedback. I know a handful of Facebook friends who are already sizing down and migrating friends over to Google+ (due in large part to the security features of posting). This is one of the most polished products I have seen from Google in a long time, and has the ability to go the distance and be a game changer in a field that has had no contenders since Facebook emerged in 2004. While there are some gripes, like not being able to delete comments on photos, rename albums, or the mobile version's oft lethargic speed, these are quite minor to the bigger picture and obviously will be corrected as time goes by. To get the most out of the experience, it is important to invite your friends in and encourage them to try it out. Otherwise, some users find it difficult to use without a Circle larger than 12 people to interact with. My main Circle is nearing 100 and I am enjoying the experience. Google+ is fast becoming my main point of communication with others, and may even threaten the necessity of Twitter (powerusers who combine Circles and posting to mimic Twitter) due to the flexibility of the service. <h2>Helpful Links</h2><ul>
<li><a href="http://webtrickz.com/20-google-tips-to-enhance-your-google-plus-experience/" target="_blank">25 Google+ tips to Enhance your Google Plus Experience</a></li>
<li><a href="http://webtrickz.com/why-the-built-in-photo-editor-on-google-rocks/" target="_blank">Using the Built-In Photo Editor in Google Plus</a></li>
<li><a href="https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-EA38qOrc8_4/Thm4iyghvxI/AAAAAAAAAE8/eOA3Vvy3BBA/GooglePlusCheatSheet.jpg" target="_blank">Google Plus Cheat Sheet</a></li>
</ul>