---
layout: journal
title: Calling All Web Designers!
tags: 
- web design
- delaware web design jobs
- drupal jobs
- delaware web design company
show_chat: true
show_contacts: false
---

Our first of 3 job postings going up, so keep your eyes peeled! <strong>About you:</strong> Inclind is seeking an ambitious, well-rounded web designer for its design &amp; development team. You will work closely with a team of experienced web designer / developers on custom websites and web applications, implementing the latest in HTML, CSS and Javascript for front-end glory. If you have a passion for great design and a healthy sense of humor (we love reddit!), we&rsquo;d love to hear from you! <strong>About us:</strong> Inclind Inc is a highly creative Georgetown Delaware web design company specializing in web design, custom Drupal development, internet marketing, ecommerce, search engine optimization servicing clients on the east coast. We help businesses succeed. We&rsquo;ve been in business for 12 years, have worked on many great projects and always looking to push the envelope on what we do. We live at the beach, we love what we do, this is our passion and dream. Now, back to you! <strong>Requirements:</strong> - Experience with design software (Photoshop, Illustrator, etc.)<br /> - Experience with Drupal &amp; Wordpress<br /> - Understanding of content management systems fundamentals and templating concepts<br /> - Thorough understanding of HTML, JS, and CSS<br /> - Adherence to web standards<br /> - Devotion to UI and UX<br /> - Passion for new technology and problem solving<br /> - Excellent attention to detail<br /> - Able to work on deadlines and perform under pressure<br /> - Desire grow and learn <strong>Experience a plus:</strong> - Experience with PHP (for theming purposes)<br /> - Comfort with maintaining a local web environment<br /> - Experience with JS frameworks such as jQuery, MooTools, YUI<br /> - Experience with version control (git, svn, etc)<br /> - Some knowledge of designing for mobile devices <strong>Perks!</strong> - Your own new Macbook Air to work with!<br /> - Your own new iPhone 4 (or 5!) to use, paid for by us!<br /> - Company beach time on Fridays!<br /> - Paid outings to conventions like Drupalcon, or whatever strikes your fancy.<br /> - Super cool coworkers!<br /> - Super fun, rewarding projects! Please submit resume and example work to our <strong><a href="/forms/job-application.htm">Résumé Please form</a></strong>.