---
layout: journal
title: Bittersweet Departure: Best Job I've Ever Had
categories: 
show_chat: true
show_contacts: false
---

Just because you skip to listen to the next song, doesn&#39;t mean you don&#39;t love the track you were listening to. Inclind is the song I am currently listening to and I gotta say, it&#39;s the catchiest, best-composed song I have listened to so far. Today, however, I push next as I venture into the realm of education. <h2>Amazing Web Design, Marketing, &amp; Drupal Team</h2>Let it be known that Inclind has been a fantastic company. I was at home with my colleagues, where we could question and push each other, but hang out after work, Dogfish in-hand. I was accepted. My ideas were heard and respected. We moved as a united company in a positive direction. I was part of something that hasn&#39;t stopped. Inclind is constantly, consistently evolving. They are exactly what companies need in a web marketing firm. I was challenged and ever-learning here. I was elbows deep, learning Drupal and code-versioning, while always pushing design and user experience for more effective websites. This team will remain my friends. I see a slew of surf fishing, grilling, crab feasts, and laughs over brews in our future. <h2>The Road Ahead</h2>I will be transitioning into education. My new position is teaching Design, Web, and Photography at Del Tech. It will be a blast, and I will be challenged there as well, but in different ways. More sales and coaching than design. Helping aspiring visual communicators find their way. Fun. Challenging and fun. I will also continue to overtake DelMarVa with my crazy-awesome <a href="http://www.leafophoto.com" title="Delaware Wedding Photographer">Wedding Photography</a>. Keep an eye out. <h2>Bittersweet Friday</h2>Today is bittersweet. I have my last day at Inclind and start a new venture. I will miss this gig. Cheers to Inclind. Consider this my über-heartfelt best-of-luck. Keep in touch. &nbsp; <h2>Job Opportunity!</h2>On a lighter note, if you&#39;re looking to work for the best web design company around, Inclind is currently in the market for a gerneral manager/projects manager. <a href="/forms/job-application.htm" title="Web Design Jobs in Delaware">Apply within</a>.