---
layout: journal
title: Prudential Gallo REALTORS Website Launches
tags: 
- web design
- rets
- delaware real estate
- drupal real estate
- delaware beach rentals
- drupal listing management
- integrating instant software in drupal
- openrealty in drupal
show_chat: true
show_contacts: false
---

<h3>Design, Layout, &amp; Theming</h3> We began building a brand new website from the ground up for Prudential Gallo REALTORS on the <a href="http://drupal.org" target="_blank">Drupal 7</a> platform, which included a new flexible and engaging design, a mobile website, and revamped content management workflow, sharpening the tools for the staff at Prudential Gallo and bringing them into a more modern look for 2012 and beyond. One of our goals was to deviate from the trend and create a simple yet powerful real estate website that makes it easy to find properties and rentals without being drowned in checkboxes, drop downs, and endless forms to search for listings. Their previous website was good, but we wanted to really knock this one out of the park. Shaun and Bryan put their creative brainpower together working in conjunction with Andrew Ratner at Prudential Gallo to come up with a user friendly design with a beachy color palette, using design elements to stand out amongst the rest. The site is based on HTML5 and CSS3 so it will last into the next few years no matter what browsers come out, instead of desiging for yesterday in current browsers. The homepage features a 'megaslider' that fills the screen, featuring hi-res shots of the area with text and links, swappable at any time or rotated on a schedule. Two search forms for real estate and rentals overlay on the slider above the fold, getting a majority of users where they want to go right off the bat. A mega menu was also incorporated to assist users in hopping around the major areas of the site quickly. The real estate and rental searches were made to be much more simpler than they had previously been. This freed up not only space, but allowed users to search by the most common fields and get to where they were going quickly instead of mull over 50+ search options. Search results are presented in a 'monopoly card' grid format, allowing more listings to appear in the results page without making the user scroll more. We were able to present a lot of information in each grid box, displaying a virtual tour badge, price, address and photo in a creative manner, an improvement over the old designs and a much more user friendly approach. The new website also sends out a lot of email communication to its staff and customers. All email communications are branded with the same design and branding found on the website for a more personal touch. A custom mobile design compliments the desktop version, showing the most critical information from the site in a condensed format, while retaining the Prudential Gallo brand and not feeling like a cookie cutter mobile template. Visitors can access the rental properties right from their phone, and call the appropriate rental office by pushing 'Call to Book' from their phone. <h3>Real Estate RETS &amp; InstantSoftware Third Party Integration</h3> We assisted Prudential Gallo with switching from the old real estate data feed into the newer RETS based standard, allowing for faster, more consistent, and more reliable listing updates. During the course of this project, we collaborated with another company in the midwest to help develop a real estate integration solution for Drupal, called <a href="http://drupal.org/project/drealty" target="_blank">dRealty</a>. Our extensive experience with the Innovia system and close relationship with realtors gave us helpful insight and perspective for assisting in developing the module with other Drupal developers. The result is a ready to go data integration solution for Drupal that can work with many different real estate vendors, combined with the flexibility Drupal 7 can provide on the display side. We also built in additional features to add external data provided by Prugallo staff on real estate listings that can't be added through RETS. On the rentals side, we fully integrated their Instant Software Rental Property management system into Drupal. Like real estate, rental properties are updated hourly to grab any new data, photos, or rental rates. Users can also book vacation rental properties directly on Prudential Gallo without ever leaving the website. Since we first introduced that change in 2009, they have had <strong>record breaking</strong> vacation rental bookings every single year since. Rental managers can also add additional data to rental properties that they can't do in Instant Software, such as add detailed bedding information, virtual tours, and have accurate mapping by dragging and dropping pins onto an interactive map. Combined, there are over 14,000 listings between real estate and rentals, which can weigh heavily on any system. We took the time to integrate and cache the data behind Varnish and index listings with Apache Solr, boosting performance tenfold, making for a very snappy and responsive Drupal 7 site. <strong>Project Page</strong>: <a href="http://www.inclind.com/our-work/prudential-gallo/detail.htm">Prudential Gallo REALTORS</a> <strong>Website</strong>: <a href="http://www.prugallo.com" target="_blank">Prudential Gallo REALTORS</a>